=head1  NAME

$G{[cmd]} - Fetch UC Davis IAM data via their API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ucdid [-E|--endpoint=<IAM endpoint>] \
      [--auth|--iam_auth=ucd:<iam_key> \
      [-h|--help] <command> [<args>]

  where <command> is one of C<config> C<profiles> C<login> C<odr.departments> C<pps.divisions> C<pps.departments> C<pps.titles> C<sis.colleges> C<ids>

ucdid is as script that simplifies access to standard UC Davis identities.
ucdid also preforms some Aggie Expert specific functions, primarily
representing the api as linked data.

ucdid is a set of bash functions to communicate with the services.  ucdid uses
a few other tools to perform the functions. L</"COMMANDS"> is summary of the
commands that are available.

=head1 GLOBAL OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-S|--session|--http_session=I<http_session>>

Set the HTTPIE session variable.  For consistancy with other Aggie Expert tools,
the IAM authentication key is stored in a httpie session variable.  This is not
as useful as some other APIs, since the authentication method will not actually
work with UCD IAM api, which uses a parameter and not a header.  But, our
standard method allows users to maintain a persistant authentication, so we do
that here as well.

=item B<-h|--help>

Shows the manpage for the program. The help pages are embedded in the script and
require the functions, C<pod2usage> and C<pod2text> to work properly.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

C<ucdid config> will show all the parameters for the command.

C<ucdid login --auth=I<authentication>> sets the authentication key, and needs
to be run before the other commands can be run.

C<ucdid fetch --auth=I<authentication> [--format=I<mime/type>]
[--context=I<context_string>] [--envelope] I<data_files>> fetches the required
datafiles from the system.

=head2 LOGIN

  ucdid login --auth=USER[:PASS]

  B<ucd login> allows the user to persist their authentication.  The IAM API
  uses a C<key> parameter, and not a header variable, so the data can not really
  be persisted in a more standard format.  However, we still use the B<httpie
  --auth=USER:PASS> setup.  The authorization

  login --session=ucd login --auth=ucd:

After which the session C<ucd>, will be set as a httpie session, with
the saved authorization.

=head3 LOGIN OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a|--auth=USER:PASS>

You specify the basic authentication for the server. For iam, the user does not
matter, and the PASS is passed as the key for the

=back

=head2 FETCH COMMANDS

 Most commands simply fetch a particular dataset via the IAM API.  These
 are: C<profiles> C<odr.departments> C<pps.divisions> C<pps.departments>
 C<pps.titles> C<sis.colleges> C<ids>.  Every command has the following parameters


=over 4

=item B<-f|--format=I<mime/type>>

Specify the format for the return. This is in mime/type, and must be one of
C<application/json> C<application/ld+json> or C<text/turtle>.  These can also be short
hand C<json>,C<jsonld> or C<turtle|ttl>.  The default is C<application/json>

=item B<-c|--context=I<string>>

For C<application/ld+json> and C<text/turtle>, you can specify a custom context
to be added to the system.

=item B<--envelope>

For consistancy between all formats, only the response data is returned.  If you
are specifing C<application/json> data, you may use this flag to get the complete
response.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Quinn Hart <qjhart@ucdavis.edu>

